[RC1 Ch01] Update Goals and Test Methodologies (#1120)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_cert/lfn/chapters/chapter01.md

<p align="right"><img src="../figures/bogo_ifo.png" alt="scope" title="Scope" width="35%"/></p>

## Table of Contents
* [1.1 Summary](#1.1)
* [1.2 Scope](#1.2)
* [1.3 Principles and Guidelines](#1.3)
  [1.4	Performance Testing](#1.4)
*	[1.5 Assumptions & Dependencies](#1.5)
*	[1.6 Governance of Conformance Programs](#1.6)
* [x.x Resources & References](#x.x)

<a name="1.1"></a>
## 1.1 Summary

> This chapter describes the objectives, methods and scope of RC as well as requirements process to ensure teh goals for Reference Conformance (RC) are met. The goal of RC is to ensure that the capabilties of an implmentation of the CNTT Reference Architecture (RA),  inluding CNTT Reference Implementations, achieve minimum acceptable criteria as deemed necessary by CNTT and are testable as part of a conformance program. RC supports the goals of the LOPNFV Verified Program (OVP), by Linux Foundation Networking (LFN) and overseen by the Compliance and Verification Committee (CVC). Where ever possible existing mehods,frameworks and tests will be utilized.

Reviewer: A suggested change and also a typo corrections:
```suggestion
This chapter describes the objectives, methods and scope of RC as well as the requirements process to ensure the goals for Reference Conformance (RC) are met. The goal of RC is to ensure that the capabilities of an implementation of the CNTT Reference Architecture (RA),  including CNTT Reference Implementations, achieve minimum acceptable criteria as deemed necessary by CNTT and are testable as part of a conformance program. RC supports the goals of the OPNFV Verified Program (OVP), by Linux Foundation Networking (LFN), and overseen by the Compliance and Verification Committee (CVC). Wherever possible existing methods, frameworks and tests will be utilised.
```

> Exhaustive validation of CNTT reference implementations that ensure predicatble behavior and high quality of CNTT references are out of scope of RC and is the responsibility of RI. Validation of the RI may include smoke tests, soak tests, security tests and many other aspects of proficiency relevant to Cloud Infrastructure including criteria and tests dveloped in upstream projects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exhaustive validation of CNTT reference implementations that ensures predicatble behavior and quality of CNTT artefacts are out of scope of RC and are the responsibility of RI. Validation of the RI may include smoke tests, soak tests, security tests and tests for other aspects relevant to Cloud Infrastructure including criteria and tests developed in upstream projects. 
```

> CNTT specifications focus on Cloud Infrastructure and therefore RC is predominantly concerned with the behaviour of infrastructure elements and how infrastructure resources are consumed by VNF/CNFs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CNTT specifications focus on Cloud Infrastructure and therefore RC is primarily concerned with the behaviour of infrastructure elements and how infrastructure resources are consumed by VNF/CNFs. 
```

<a name="1.1.1"></a>
**Terminology**

Terminology in this document will follow [CNTT Terminology](../../../ref_model/chapters/glossary.md).

<a name="1.1.2"></a>
## 1.2 Scope

<p align="center"><img src="../figures/rc1_scope.png" alt="scope" title="RC1 Scope" width="100%"/></p>
<p align="center"><b>Figure 1-1:</b> RC1 Scope.</p>

> This document covers conformance of Cloud Infrastructure and VNFs with respec to their consumption of infrastructure resources. The document will cover the following topics:

Reviewer: previously have used VMFs/CNFs -- should that be the case here too?
```suggestion
This document covers conformance of Cloud Infrastructure and VNFs with respect to their consumption of infrastructure resources. The document will cover the following topics:
```

- Identify requirements for conformance framework.
- Identify requirements of conformance tests mapped to the Reference Model and The OpenStack Based Reference Architecture.
- Approach to conformance testing using the proposed test framework.
- Identify gaps in availble tooling, test cases, process, etc.

**Not in Scope**
- Functional testing / validation of the application provided by the VNF is outside the scope of this work.

> - Tesetin of orchestration elements (e.g. ONAP).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Testing of orchestration elements (e.g. ONAP).
```

> - VNFs capabilites other than consumption of Cloud infrastructure resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- VNF capabilities other than consumption of cloud infrastructure resources.
```

<a name="1.3"></a>
## 1.3 Principles and Guidelines

The conformance program served by RC aims to deliver a framework and tests for OVP. OVP aims to 
1. Deliver tools and methods for verifying NFVI capabilities satisfy infrastructure needs of VNFs/CNFs identified in RM and RA.
2. Increase probability that VNFs will on-board and function with minimal problems, or issues, during deployment of the VNF.
4. Increase confidence that VNF performance and capacity can be forecast for given NFVI, prior to deployment of the VNF.

Best practices should ensure procedures are repeatable with consistent quality:
* Use exsiting specifications and detailed well documented Test Plan / Test Cases

> * Add addioinal test cases where needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add additional test cases where needed
```

* Integrate with Upstream Projects and OVP process (code, docs, cert criteria, etc.)
* Have clear pass/fail criteria

<a name="1.4"></a>
## 1.4 Performance Testing

Prior to onboarding a VNF the infrastructure must be tested in the Network, Compute and Storage domains to ensure that it provides sufficient resources and capabilities for the VNF to behave as expected (i.e. deliver capacity and performance as forecast). Infrastructure vendors are expected to go through extensive testing and optimization at component and stack level prior to testing for **conformance**.

> Performance measurements may be extremely sensitive to hardware and software configurations and test methods. Testing should therefore be as realistic as possible i.e. to ensure a test environment that represents a realistic Cloud Infrastructure setup using open-source tools and test VNFs (i.e. workloads) that mimic as much as possible a real VNF consuming available infrastrcuture resources. Test methods that directly measure performance from the perspective of the VNF are more realistic than infering VNF performance by testing "under-the-hood" attributes of the infrastructure. Testing the infrastructre from the viewpoint of the VNF ultimately helps to ensure that behaviour of commercial VNFs will be more predictable and if a commercial VNF does not perform well, the tools, methods and reference results from RC may be very useful for investigating the discrepancy. Furterhmore, test tools that are "stand-alone" and packaged as VNFs can be deployed using the same onboarding methods as a commercial VNFs and hence will be portable across differnt commerical infrastructures.

Reviewer: The RA's specify the hardware and software configurations. CNTT expects that the vendors conform to these as otherwise we will have, similar to what exists today, multiple different configurations to contend with

Exhaustive validation of CNTT reference implementations that ensure predicatble behavior and high quality of CNTT references are out of scope of RC and is the responsibility of RI. Validation of the RI may include smoke tests, soak tests, security tests and many other aspects of proficiency relevant to Cloud Infrastructure including criteria and tests dveloped in upstream projects. 

CNTT specifications focus on Cloud Infrastructure and therefore RC is predominantly concerned with the behaviour of infrastructure elements and how infrastructure resources are consumed by VNF/CNFs. 

<a name="1.1.1"></a>
**Terminology**

Terminology in this document will follow [CNTT Terminology](../../../ref_model/chapters/glossary.md).

<a name="1.1.2"></a>
## 1.2 Scope

<p align="center"><img src="../figures/rc1_scope.png" alt="scope" title="RC1 Scope" width="100%"/></p>
<p align="center"><b>Figure 1-1:</b> RC1 Scope.</p>

This document covers conformance of Cloud Infrastructure and VNFs with respec to their consumption of infrastructure resources. The document will cover the following topics:

- Identify requirements for conformance framework.

> - Identify requirements of conformance tests mapped to the Reference Model and The OpenStack Based Reference Architecture.

Reviewer: @fuqiao123 In RA-1 Chapter 02, each requirement  will point to RC sections relevant to that requirement; it will not list the actual tests. It is likely that since RC may list a set of tests within each section, a number of RA- requirements will point to the same section. A more granular mapping will have to be part of RC. But we can discuss if you have other ideas.

## Synopsis

> The goal of Reference Conformance (RC) is to ensure the Reference Implementation (RI) of CNTT Reference Architecture (RA) meets industry driven validation to ensure sufficient quality as an Industry Reference. Furthermore RC supports the conformance goals of the OPNFV Verified Program (OVP), by Linux Foundation Networking (LFN) and overseen by the Compliance Verification Committee (CVC).

Reviewer 2: I think we need to be clear whether it is the RC's responsibility to make sure RI meets industry quanlity, or it should be gating tests within OPNFV to make sure of this?

Reviewer 2: I am still having concerns for the 'validation' words. I think we need to be clear whether RC is responsible for validation. According our last week's agreement, RC will only address requirement of 'must'. Then my understanding would be RC is only for conformance. We can put validation of RI in RI WS or in OPNFV projects. I think we probably need some discussion on our next RI & RC call.

These core principles will guide NFV verification deliverables:

<a name="1.4.1"></a>
### 1.4.1 Overarching Objectives

1. Deliver tools and methods for verifying NFVI capabilities satisfy infrastructure needs of VNFs/CNFs identified in RM and RA.
2. Increase probability that VNFs will on-board and function with minimal problems, or issues, during deployment of the VNF.
4. Increase confidence that VNF performance and capacity can be forecast for given NFVI, prior to deployment of the VNF.
5. Verification tools portable across all RAs.

<a name="1.5"></a>
## 1.5 Testing Best Practices

The following best practices have been adopted to ensure validation procedures are repeatable with consistent quality in RI test results, and RI conformance test suites:

* Test methodologies with exsiting specifications and detailed well documented Test Plan / Test Cases
* Integration with OPNFV Upstream Projects and OVP flow (code, docs, cert criteria, etc.)
* Leverage Network and Service Models, with identified VNF-specific parameters
* Clear pass/fail **conformance** criteria

> * Test cases for validating the RI used for **conformance**

Reviewer 2: This sentence is quite confusing for me regarding validation and conformance

<a name="1.4.1"></a>
### 1.4.1 Overarching Objectives and Goals

1. Deliver tools and methods for verifying NFVI capabilities satisfy infrastructure needs of VNFs/CNFs identified in RM.

> 2. Augment current OVP program to meet infrastructure verification requirements.

Reviewer 3: 2 - is false. It's the opposite. RC defines requirements and test cases.
OVP is up to conform with them but RC goals are unlinked to OVP (it may be implemented by other bodies)

<a name="1.4.1"></a>
### 1.4.1 Overarching Objectives and Goals

1. Deliver tools and methods for verifying NFVi capabilities satisfy infrastructure needs of VNFs identified in RM.
2. Augment current OVP program to meet infrastructure verification requirements.
3. Increase probability VNFs will on-board and function with minimal problems, or issues, during initial deployment of VNF.
4. Increase confidence that VNF performance and capacity can be forecast for given NFVi

> 5. Verification tools to be portable, or compatible, across all RAs/Distributions which already conform to standard interfaces and services.

Reviewer 4: - Use uppercase "I" in NFVI throughout the document/chapter.  
- For no. 2, this should include xNF (VNF, CNF) in additional to NFVI?  Perhaps change the statement, "..meet infrastructure verification.." to "..meet infrastructure and network function verification.."?
- Do you think we take the time now to change all occurrences of "VNFs" to "VNFs/CNFs", or something equivalent, to give us flexibility to easily refactor our statements when CNFs are more prevalent, vs. having to modify at a later date?

Reviewer 5: > * Do you think we take the time now to change all occurrences of "VNFs" to "VNFs/CNFs"
I think that makes sense at the RM level, where it is a document that is expressly intended to cover both VNFs and CNFs at the same time.  RA1 and RA2 diverge to focus on VNFs and CNFs, respectively, and I think that RA1->RI1 -> RC1 should use VNFs (to be crystal clear about the domain on which they are focused) and that an RA2/RI2/RC2 suite would be similarly focused on CNFs.

Reviewer 4: @kedmison - agree that the RM level, and valid point re: keeping domains separate.  Therefore, removing last two comments, as NA.

* Standard compute flavours to be tested are defined in [chapter 4.2.1](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/ref_model/chapters/chapter04.md#4.2.1)
* Performance profiles come in the form of Basic, Network Intensive, and Compute intensive. Refer to [chapter 2.3](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/ref_model/chapters/chapter02.md#2.3) for details on these profiles.

<a name="1.6"></a>
## 1.6 Governance of Conformance Program

> CVC is responsible for governance and process of LFN conformance programs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CVC is responsible for governance and processes of the LFN conformance programs.
```

<a name="1.6"></a>
## 1.6 Verification methodologies

> Prior to onboarding a VNF the NFVi must be tested in Network, Compute and Storage domains to ensure that it provides required capabilities that allow the VNF to behave as expected.

Reviewer 4: I believe this statement refers to having fully tested a CNTT RA-x, and passing all compliance and conformance tests before proceeding with VNF(CNF) on-boarding.  If true, then please consider refactoring portions of the original sentence to clarify.  

For example, "Prior to on-boarding a VNF(CNF) the NFVI must be tested in a compliant reference architecture consisting of Network, Compute and Storage domains, to ensure the NFVI provides required exposure of features and capabilities which meet VNF(CNF) developer functional and platform requirements."

Reviewer 5: @mf4716 I'm not sure I quite follow the suggestion.  Is this suggesting that the NFVI design may be tested in a particular location, and the design itself receive the certification that would then apply to different NFVI deployments?

Reviewer 4: @kedmison - test and receive certification badge for the NFVI; then, deploy, test, and certify the vnf on the same NFVI, receiving the vnf badget after.  The way the statement was modified, it's not clear NFVI badging would be a pre-requisite to VNF badging.

Author: @mf4716 @kedmison @acmacm @LucProvoost 

As updated 1.6 Verification methodologies ... only refers to NFVI verification. Statement (ln 113) describes an approach for verifying an NFVI to compare its capabilities against a CNTT RI (the reference). This is independent of an actual VNF that will ultimately be on-boarded (commercially deployed environment). Not to be confused with testing a CNTT RA-x (instantiate as an RI-x) which uses normal code testing/validation methods such as API conformance etc. On that point I think we agreed not refer to "conformance" testing in OVP since that implies testing against a specification or standard (e.g. conformance with a protocol). We are testing against a CNTT RI which instantiates a RA. Perhaps we should title it NFVI Verification methodology and make a separate heading for VNF verification methodology as the methodologies are distinct?

I don't think NFVI badging is a pre-requisite to VNF badging since the whole point is to decouple VNF from NFVI. I should be able to verify a VNF against the reference i.e. independent of any commercial NFVI.

Reviewer 4: > We are testing against a CNTT RI which instantiates a RA. Perhaps we should title it NFVI Verification methodology and make a separate heading for VNF verification methodology as the methodologies are distinct?

Agree @trevgc .  The paragraphs removed referenced a holistic methodology.  Versus, the recommended replacement verbiage which pertains to VNF testing only.  Recommended adding back the holistic verbiage, and creating a sub-section here which contains the new VNF info.

> I don't think NFVI badging is a pre-requisite to VNF badging since the whole point is to decouple VNF from NFVI. I should be able to verify a VNF against the reference i.e. independent of any commercial NFVI.

VNF onboarding acceleration will occur when Telcos accept VNFs validated against a CNTT normalized architecture.  Two badges, NFVI and VNF, ultimately achieve CNTT's target-end state goal.   VNF badges should only be granted when executed against the discrete architecture(s) defined by CNTT.  Anything different continues to perpetuate platform fragmentation and interconnection challenges Telcos deal with today.

Reviewer 4: @trevgc - can we revert/refactors some of the existing language so that we maintain the original intent of the chapter/paragraphs?

Predicting networking performance may be particularly difficult to establish and can be extremely sensitive to configuration details of the NFVi. Testing should be from the perspective of the VNF and create an environment that represents a realistic NFVi setup using open-source test tools and test workloads (i.e. test VNFs) that mimic how a real VNF will consume the NFVi. At this stage of testing we assume that the NFVi vendor has fully debugged and optimized the NFVI components and stack. With this approach the above objectives can be achieved:

> 1. VNF vendors will know the capabilities of the NFVi and be able to forecast performance of the VNF. By knowing how the NFVI has been tested (and having the open-source test tools including workloads) they can reproduce test results or produce their own results using their own NFVI configurations.

Reviewer 6: @trevgc the intent is not to have VNFs vendors to test using their own NFVI configuration. i recommend removing this sentence.

Reviewer 3: +1.

	
2. Since testing is from the viewpoint of the VNF, performance of a commercial VNF should also be predictable. If this is not the case, the reference results provide good data to investigate the discrepancy. 
	
3. If the test tools are packaged as VNFs, they can be deployed using the same methods as a real VNF and hence are extremely portable across NFVi's.

> 

Reviewer 4: Please consider adding this line back in, or some variant of, as it's intended to keep the option open for VNF(CNF) developers to utilize their own test harnesses, and tools, to complement the CNTT RC suite,  We were trying to be explicit that while badging would require specific RI-x/RC-x test suite execution, suppliers would be encouraged to perform additional testing using their tools and test cases for increased confidence of product behavior when given to a telco.

Reviewer 5: How would this be done in practice?  Would VNF/CNF vendors create additional validation tools that run against the NFVI to validate assumptions?

Reviewer 4: @kedmison - sure; VNF suppliers should be validating their VNF functionality using their own test harnesses, against their own labs/bench.  Therefore, inserting the statement, "if desired", is intended to encourage VNF suppliers to use their testing apparatus which includes their own scenarios to validate VNF functionality while using RI-x labs and pursing NFVI+VNF badging.  Keep in mind, our badging process does not include VNF functional testing.

Reviewer 4: Similarly, @trevgc - can we revert/refactors some of the existing language so that we maintain the original intent of the chapter/paragraphs?
